BIOLOGY

diffusion - particles spreading out particles from an area
sucrose solution - a liquid, usually water, with a solid dissolved in it
Amnion - A water-filled sac (containing AMNIOTIC FLUID) that helps support and protect the developing embryo.
Photosynthesis - The process by which plants manufacture glucose using carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil using energy from the Sun
Cell membrane - Surrounds the cell and controls the movement of substances in and out.
Cell wall - Strengthens the cell. In plant cells, it is made of cellulose.
Cells - The unit of a living organism, contains parts to carry out life processes.
Chloroplast - Absorbs light energy so the plant can make food.
Circulatory System  -Transports substances around the body.
Cytoplasm - Jelly-like substance where most chemical processes happen.
Embryonic - A cell which will differentiate into any cell type.
Nucleus - Contains genetic material (DNA) which controls the cell s activities.
Organs - Group of different tissues working together to carry out a job.
Specialised Cells - Cells that have been adapted for their function.
Stem Cells -  Cells that are not specialised and can develop into a specialised cell.
Structural Adaptations - Special features to help a cell carry out its functions.
Tissues - Group of cells of one type.
Vacuole - Area in a cell that contains liquid, and can be used by plants to keep the cell rigid and store substances.
diffusion - particles spreading out particles from a area
sucrose solution
PRODUCER - Organisms at the beginning of a food chain that produce their own food. All plants are producers
SAPROPHYTE - An organism that feeds or grows on decaying plants or animals.
SPERM - A cell that contains the male gamete in animals. In humans sperm are made in the testis.
CONSUMER - An animal that eats plants or another animal
PRODUCER - An organism that makes food. Usually a green plant.
RESPIRATION - The process by which all living organisms release energy from sugar.
ROOT - Part of a plant that absorbs water and dissolved mineral salts from the ground.
SCAVENGER - The type of animal that lives from the remains of other animals. eg shrimp, vulture.
SMALL INTESTINE - The organ where digestion and absorption of food takes place in mammals.
STAMEN - The male part of a flower. Where the pollen is made. Is made up from a FILAMENT and ANTHER.
STIGMA - This is the part of a flower where pollen lands during pollination. It is at the top of the carpel, the female part of the flower
TESTIS - Where sperm are manufactured in a human.
TRACHEA	- Another name for the windpipe
UMBILICAL CORD - A tube that connects the baby to the mother (before it is born). It consists of an artery and vein that connects the embryo's blood circulatory system to the placenta.
URETER - The tube that carries urine from the kidney to the bladder
VEINS - Blood vessels that carry blood TOWARDS the heart
VERTEBRATES	This word describes animals that have a backbone.
WARM-BLOODED - This word describes animals whose body temperature is constant
XYLEM VESSELS - Vessels that transport water to the leaf of a plant from its roots.
YEAST fermentation - A single celled FUNGUS used in baking to make bread rise and in brewing to make alcohol.
ZYGOTE - The cell formed by the fertilization of a male and female gamete.
CHLOROPHYLL	 - The name of the green chemical needed by plants for photosynthesis to take place
POLLINATION	 - The process whereby pollen reaches the stigma of a plant
Fungi - A group of organisms similar to plants but do not possess green chlorophyll so cannot carry out photosynthesis.
GAMETE - The name given to the special cells that join during sexual reproduction (eg egg and sperm)
GERMINATION	- When a seed shows first signs of growth. In order to germinate seed needs WATER, OXYGEN and WARMTH.
HABITAT	The place where an animal or plant makes its home.
HEART - The organ used to pump blood to and from the lungs and around the body.
HERBIVORE - Describes an animal that eats only plants. (leaves, seeds, berries, bark etc) eg snail, mouse
HOST - The organism on which a parasite is living
INSECTS - Animals that have 3 pairs of legs, 3 parts to the body and usually 2 pairs of wings eg butterfly, ant.
INVERTEBRATES	Animals without a backbone. examples are fly, slug, spider.
KIDNEY - An organ in the body that removes waste (urea) from the blood.
LUNGS - Organs that put oxygen into the blood and remove carbon dioxide
MAMMALS	- A group of animals where the young are born alive and have hair or fur on their bodies.
MITOCHONDRIA - The part of a cell which carries out respiration. They provide the cell with energy.
OMNIVORE (omniverous) - The word used to describe animals that eat plants and other animals.
PARASITE - An animal or plant that lives on (or inside) the body of another living organism .