Acid - Corrosive substance which has a pH lower than 7. Acidity is caused by a high concentration of hydrogen ions.
Alkali - A base which is soluble in water.
Base - A substance that neutralises an acid those that dissolve in water are called alkalis.
Chemical Formula - Shows the elements present in a compound and their relative proportions.
Chemical Reaction - A change in which a new substance is formed.
Concentration - A measure of the number of particles in a given volume.
Conserved - When the quantity of something does not change after a process takes place.
Corrosive - Able to damage metal, stonework, clothes and skin. Strong acids and alkalis are corrosive.
Dilute - A substance which contains very little of the dissolved substance.
Indicators - Substances used to identify whether unknown solutions are acidic or alkaline.
Irritant - A substance that can cause irritation to the skin.
Metals - Shiny, good conductors of electricity and heat, malleable and ductile, and usually solid at room temperature.
Neutral - A substance which is neither an acid nor an alkali.
Neutralisation - A reaction between an acid and an alkali.
Non-metals - Dull, poor conductors of electricity and heat, brittle and usually solid or gaseous at room temperature.
pH - Scale of acidity and alkalinity from 0 to 14.
Physical Change - One that changes the physical properties of a substance, but no new substance is formed.
Products - Substances formed in a chemical reaction, shown after the reaction arrow in an equation.
Reactants - Substances that react together, shown before the arrow in an equation.
Alloy - An alloy is a mixture of two or more elements, at least one of which is a metal.
Chromatography - Chromatography is used to separate different substances dissolved in a liquid.
Compound - A substance formed by the chemical un ion of two or more elements.
Condense - Change of state from gas to liquid when the temperature drops to the boiling point.
Crystallisation - The process of producing crystals from a solution by evaporating the solvent.
Dissolve - When a substance breaks up and mixes completely with a solvent to produce a solution.
Distillation - A separation technique which involves a solution being heated so that the solvent evaporates before being cooled to form a pure liquid.
Element - A substance which contains only one type of atom.
Evaporation - The process in which a liquid changes state and turns into a gas.
Filtrate - Fluid that has passed through a filter.
Filtration - A process to separate an insoluble substance from a solvent.
Impure - A substance, usually unwanted, that is present in another substance.
Insoluble - Unable to dissolve in a particular solvent. For example, sand is insoluble in water.
Mixture - Two or more substances that are not joined together. The substances can be elements, compounds, or both.
Mobile Phase - Phase in chromatography that moves, usually a solvent or mixture of solvents.
Pure - It only contains one type of substance.
Residue - The material left over at the end of a process, often the material that is removed during purification of a substance.
Solubility - How easily the solute dissolves in the solvent.
Soluble - Able to dissolve in solvent. For example, sugar is soluble in water because it dissolves to form sugar solution.
Solute - The dissolved substance in a solution.
Solution - Mixture formed by a solute and a solvent.
Solvent - Mixture formed by a solute and a solvent.
Stationary Phase - Phase in chromatography that does not move, for instance, the paper in chromatography.
