Georgraphy

agriculture - The growing of crops and animals
sedimentray - sandstone, limestone and shale compressed togther
igneous - hot molten lava soldifies
metamorphic - forms when rock subjected to high heats
Conurbation: Two cities that grow and eventually merge together.
Plain: A low flat area.
Densely Populated: An area that is crowded.
Population Distribution: How people are spread out over an area.
Population Growth Rate: A measure of how quickly the number of people in an area increases.
Ordnance Survey: The official government organisation for producing maps of the UK.
River Basin: The area drained by a river and its tributaries.
Residential: A housing area where people live.
Settlement Hierarchy: settlements ordered by their size: hamlets, villages, towns, cities, conurbations.
Subsistence: Growing just enough food for your own needs with nothing left over to sell.
Unemployment Rate: The number of people out of work for each 1000 of the population.
Vineyard: Where grapes are grown to make wine.
Wildlife Habitats: The homes of plant and animals.
Plateau: A high flat area.
Gradient: The slope of the land.
European Union: A group of European countries working together for the benefit of everyone in the group.
Accessible: A place which is easy to reach.
Arable Farming: A farm or area that only grows crops.
Conservationist: People who care for and look after the environment.
Drought: A long spell of dry weather resulting in a serious water shortage.
Economic Activity: This is about industry, jobs, earning a living and producing wealth.
Historic Sites: Important old settlements and buildings which are interesting to people.
Industrialised: Using machines and power (energy) to make things.
Permeable: A rock that will allow water to pass through it such as limestone.
Living Standards: How well people are able to live. It is linked to the amount of money they earn.
Sparsely Populated: An area that has few people living in it.
True North: The direction which points to the North Pole.
Less Developed: A poorer area where there are less communications, services and where people have lower living standards.
Mediterranean Climate: Places which have hot, dry summers and mild, wet winters.
Frontier (Border): The boundary around a country.
Green Belt: A protected area of countryside around a city where new building is not allowed to try and stop the spread of a city.

Continents - large masses land with countries inside
Oceans - 5 oceans, large masses water
Biome - area with one climate/vegetation
Climate - weather conditions in area over long periods of time
Weather - day-to-day temperature, wind, humidity, etc
Population - number of people in area
Life expectancy
GNI - Gross National Income
Dormant - hasn’t erupted in 2000 years

Canopy Layer - layer underneath top layer of forest trees
Decidious forest - A forest characterized by trees or plants, shedding its leaves annually
Literacy rate - proportion of population who can read, write, etc
Growth rate - rate of new babies
Excinct - the species is not alive anymore
Magma Chamber - the location beneath the vent of volcano where magma is stored
Molten rock - magma underneath the surface of the earth
Seisic waves - vibration caused by an earthquake, explosion or any similar energetic source in the earth or surface
Shock waves - very high pressure moving through air, water, earth
Igneous rock - cooled magma, normally found near volcanos
Sedimentary rock - little pieces of old rock formed together to create one rock
Metamorphic rock - formed with high heat and high pressure, formed by other rocks squished together

Acidity - level of acid in substances
Physical geography - the study of the Earth's surface, the animals and the plants that inhabit it
Human geography - the sutdy of human communities, cultures, economies, and their interactions with the environment
Enviromental geography - the study of interactions between humans and the natural world
Urbanisation - number of people lving in urban areas
Migration - the movement of people from one place to another to live or work
Erosion - where natural materials are torn awasy by wind and water
Corrie - forming a lip at the valley end
Tarn - lake
Groynes - structure to control erosion
Revetments - sloping structures built on embankments or shorelines, along the base of cliffs, or in front of sea walls to absorb and dissipate the energy of waves in order to reduce coastal erosion